That's a huge concern amongst investors.
So what I'm doing is to tackle that and actually to say,
OK, which are the funds that are actually making a positive social
and environmental impact?
Ethical banks used to be considered niche –
interesting or appealing
only to a small number of people.
But as environmentally responsible investing increased, banks started jumping
on the bandwagon, an idiom meaning to become involved in an activity
because it's popular, and not
because you're really interested in it. As a result,
some banks have been accused of greenwashing,
attempting to appear environmentally friendly
without actually doing anything serious to protect the environment.
But remember,
banks rely on customers' money and are likely to change their behaviour
when customers threaten to take their money elsewhere.
This idea inspired British film director Richard Curtis to start his campaign,
Make My Money Matter,
On TV, Richard has raised millions
of pounds for the BBC's charity, Comic Relief.
But even he was surprised by the amount of money saved by doing
one simple thing – moving your pension to an environmentally-sustainable fund.
And, as Richard told BBC
Radio 4 programme, Costing the Earth,
he was even encouraged by former governor of the Bank of England,
Mark Carney. You know,
when I started this, everyone said, well, you know all the mechanisms
and all the accounting and all the transparency isn't quite there yet.
But Mark Carney said to me, 'go for it',
because it will be the more that people become interested,
the more transparent companies will have to be, the more examples
they'll give you of good things that you're investing in. So that, as it were,
it will get better
the more the spotlight is put on
exactly what an ethical or sustainable pension is doing.
The more people demand
responsible pensions,
the more banks need to be transparent,
meaning open and honest about their investments.
This in turn puts the spotlight on how pension funds are being used,
for example, whether they support large oil corporations
or renewable energy companies. To put the spotlight on something
means to attract attention to it, usually to share information
about something bad.
Luckily, the customer is always right
and by managing our money
ethically, we can all help a little. I think
it's time to reveal the answer to your question
about the most effective way to fight climate change, Neil.
I said it was by moving your pension into ethical
investments. Which was... the correct answer!
In fact, changing your pension is thought to be 21 times
more effective than avoiding meat and stopping flying put together.
OK, let's recap the vocabulary
we have learned from this programme starting with green –
an adjective with several meanings, one of which is naive or
inexperienced. A niche interest appeals only
to a small number of people. Greenwashing
describes attempts by a business to seem more environmentally friendly
than they really are. The idiom
jump on the bandwagon means become involved in an activity
because it's popular and likely to succeed,
not because you're really interested in it. When a business is transparent,
it's easy to see how it works because it's open and honest,
without hidden secrets.
And finally, the phrase to put the spotlight
on something means to draw attention to it.
Once again, our six minutes are up.
Join us again soon for more useful vocabulary here at Six Minute
English. Bye for now! Goodbye.